Inheritance wallet - Part 1 (#1081)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/inheritance-wallet/overview.md

---
layout: guide
title: Overview
description: An introduction to the use case, personas and scope of the inheritance wallet.
nav_order: 1
parent: Inheritance wallet
permalink: /guide/inheritance-wallet/overview/
main_classes: -no-top-padding

---

<!--

Editor's notes

This page covers ....  

Illustration sources

https://www.figma.com/file/h5GP5v5dYfpXXfEUXf6nvC/Family-inheritance-wallet?type=design&node-id=5542%3A2119&mode=design&t=sBtcvrDzb8MPtWaK-1

-->

# Overview 
{: .no_toc }

---

<div class="glossary-toc" markdown="1">
 * Table of contents
{:toc}
</div>

---

The target audience for the inheritance wallet are families who are familiar with bitcoin and hold the majority of their net worth in bitcoin. They want to take advantage of the security assurances of multi-key wallets and are comfortable with using more advanced technical features and human processes for inheritance planning.  

> For other users, such a setup might be too advanced. When choosing a specific setup, the decision should be based on factors such as the amount of bitcoin they hold, what their family situation looks like, where they live or how knowledgeable and comfortable they are with bitcoin in general. This line of thinking applies not only to the initial bitcoin holders themselves, but also to their heirs, as they will have to recover the funds at some point.

Reviewer: We could link to the [personal finance page](https://bitcoin.design/guide/designing-products/personal-finance/), which provides a framework for choosing the right security setup for your use case.

Reminder to self to update the personal finance page at some point with a link to this inheritance wallet reference design.

Reviewer: Also, the first sentence is very long. Considering our international audience with many for whom English is the second language, I think it's good to keep text short and direct. Up to you whether you want to adjust it or not.

## Personas
Meet the Jones family: Bob, Alice and their two children Christina (24) and David (21). Bob and Alice have been saving in bitcoin for quite some time. They have been teaching their children how they should use and safeguard their own bitcoin wallets. 

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/overview/family-overview.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/overview/family-overview@2x.png"
   alt-text = "A diagram showing the Jones family."
   width = 1600
   height = 800
%}

> Alice and Bob have been using a [shared multi-key wallet](https://bitcoin.design/guide/shared-wallet/) as a family checking account for a few years already. This wallet is used for general spending, while each of them manage their income, personal spending and savings using their individual single-key wallets. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alice and Bob have been using a [shared multi-key wallet]({{ '/guide/shared-wallet/' | relative_url }}) as a family checking account for a few years already. This wallet is used for general spending, while each of them manage their income, personal spending and savings using their individual single-key wallets. 
```

4. **Legal support:** Alice and Bob also want to involve Edward, their lawyer, to assist in case there are any problems between the children or their families. He will also be able to work with the legal inheritance processes in their jurisdiction.

## Wallet configuration
Based on their initial requirements, Alice and Bob decided on having two key sets. One primary key set that they will use in times of normal operations. In addition, they want to create an inheritance key set that unlocks after a certain time. Their children and Edward will each hold one these keys.  

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/overview/key-scheme.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/overview/key-scheme@2x.png"
   alt-text = "A diagram showing that Alice and Bob control three keys, while Christina, David and Edward control one key each."
   width = 1600
   height = 800
%}

Below is an overview of what the configuration of the family's savings wallet will look like:

- **A 2-of-3 primary key set for normal spending**. Since it is a savings wallet, Alice and Bob will spend only very infrequently.

> - **A timelocked [recovery path](https://bitcoin.design/guide/savings-wallet/time-based-recovery/)** in case they lose two of the three keys. The timelock enables moving the funds with just one of the keys if no signing has occurred within a set time, in this case we'll set it to 6 months.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **A timelocked [recovery path]({{ 'guide/savings-wallet/time-based-recovery/' | relative_url }})** in case they lose two of the three keys. The timelock enables moving the funds with just one of the keys if no signing has occurred within a set time, in this case we'll set it to 6 months.
```

#### Role of the wallet provider
Your answers to the above questions as well as the vision and goals of your application will have a direct impact on the user experience. 

If you want to pursue a strictly self-custodial approach, you will need to design a user experience that requires your users to perform more actions that might not be intuitive for them. 

There might also be a good chance that you won't be able to make use of some features that are considered standard in other applications, such as push notifications, cross-device sync, or others, because they rely on backend servers and coordination. If this is the case, you will need to place more emphasis on user education and help content. 

On the other hand, if you decide to build a product that takes some of that burden from the user, you can design a smoother, more automated user experience. But your users will have to place significantly more trust in your application.

The goal for this reference design is to build an application that relies on the wallet provider as little as possible. 

#### Interoperability

> An important aspect to consider is the demise of our application itself. What if, during the course of the years, the developers of our application decide to abandon the project? Or if it gets removed from the app stores? Ensuring a high degree of [interoperability](https://bitcoin.design/guide/getting-started/principles/#interoperability) with protocol standards will allow users to easily move their wallet to a different application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An important aspect to consider is the demise of our application itself. What if, during the course of the years, the developers of our application decide to abandon the project? Or if it gets removed from the app stores? Ensuring a high degree of [interoperability]({{ '/guide/getting-started/principles/#interoperability' | relative_url }}) with protocol standards will allow users to easily move their wallet to a different application.
```
